Revamp Inference Providers doc (#1652)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/api-inference/index.md

> # Inference Providers API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Inference Providers
```

> Hugging Face Inference Providers revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hugging Face Inference Providers simplify and unify how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.
```

> The Hugging Face Inference Providers revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hugging Face Inference Providers revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.
```
(or `The Hugging Face Inference Providers API` like it seems it was at some point, not sure when it disappeared)

> The Hugging Face Inference Providers API revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hugging Face Inference Providers revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.
```

> The Hugging Face Inference Providers API revolutionizes how developers access and run machine learning models by offering a unified, flexible interface to multiple serverless inference providers. This new approach extends our previous Serverless Inference API, providing more models, increased performances and better reliability thanks to our awesome partners.

Reviewer: add nice visual of all providers

> To learn more about the launch of the Inference Providers, check out our [announcement blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/inference-providers).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn more about the launch of Inference Providers, check out our [announcement blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/inference-providers).
```

> ## Why use the Inference Providers?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Why use Inference Providers?
```
We should drop the `the` everywhere ("the Inference Providers API" is fine, but it's because it's the API we're talking about in this case)

> The Inference Providers offers a fast and simple way to explore thousands of models for a variety of tasks. Whether you're experimenting with ML capabilities or building a new application, this API gives you instant access to high-performing models across multiple domains:

Reviewer 3: Hammering my point from my previous comment - either:
- "(HF) Inference Providers offers" (as in "ProductX offers")
- "The Inference Providers {feature,API} offers"

but not "The Inference Providers offers" 😅 (same everywhere)

```suggestion
Inference Providers offers a fast and simple way to explore thousands of models for a variety of tasks. Whether you're experimenting with ML capabilities or building a new application, this API gives you instant access to high-performing models across multiple domains:
```

Author: 100% aligned! 
Sorry about that, I didn't review it when I switched from "Inference Providers API" to "Inference Providers" :grimacing:

* **Text Generation:** Including large language models and tool-calling prompts, generate and experiment with high-quality responses.
* **Image and Video Generation:** Easily create customized images, including LoRAs for your own styles.
* **Document Embeddings:** Build search and retrieval systems with SOTA embeddings.
* **Classical AI Tasks:** Ready-to-use models for text classification, image classification, speech recognition, and more.

> ⚡ **Fast and Free to Get Started**: The Inference Providers comes with a free-tier and additional included credits for [PRO users](https://hf.co/subscribe/pro).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
⚡ **Fast and Free to Get Started**: Inference Providers comes with a free-tier and additional included credits for [PRO users](https://hf.co/subscribe/pro), as well as [Enterprise Hub organizations](https://huggingface.co/enterprise).
```
(will be true by the time this doc is live :))

## Key Features

- **🎯 All-in-One API**: A single API for text generation, image generation, document embeddings, NER, summarization, image classification, and more.
- **🔀 Multi-Provider Support**: Easily run models from top-tier providers like fal, Replicate, Sambanova, Together AI, and others.
- **🚀 Scalable & Reliable**: Built for high availability and low-latency performance in production environments.
- **🔧 Developer-Friendly**: Simple requests, fast responses, and a consistent developer experience across Python and JavaScript clients.
- **💰 Cost-Effective**: No extra markup on provider rates.

## Inference Playground

To get started quickly with [Chat Completion models](http://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=all&sort=trending&other=conversational), use the [Inference Playground](https://huggingface.co/playground) to easily test and compare models with your prompts.

<a href="https://huggingface.co/playground" target="blank"><img src="https://cdn-uploads.huggingface.co/production/uploads/5f17f0a0925b9863e28ad517/9_Tgf0Tv65srhBirZQMTp.png" style="max-width: 550px; width: 100%;"/></a>

## Get Started

> You can call the Inference Providers with your preferred tools, such as Python, JavaScript, or cURL. To simplify integration, we offer both a Python SDK (`huggingface_hub`) and a JavaScript SDK (`huggingface.js`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use Inference Providers with your preferred tools, such as Python, JavaScript, or cURL. To simplify integration, we offer both a Python SDK (`huggingface_hub`) and a JavaScript SDK (`huggingface.js`).
```

> In this section, we will demonstrate a simple example using [deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324), a conversational Large Language Model. For the example, we will use [Novita AI](https://novita.ai/) as Inference Provider with routed requests. You will learn what that means in the next chapters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this section, we will demonstrate a simple example using [deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324), a conversational Large Language Model. For the example, we will use [Novita AI](https://novita.ai/) as Inference Provider.
```

imo, it's better to leave it if it can't be explained.

### Authentication

> The Inference Providers requires passing a user token in the request headers. You can generate a token by signing up on the Hugging Face website and going to the [settings page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens/new?ownUserPermissions=inference.serverless.write&tokenType=fineGrained). We recommend creating a `fine-grained` token with the scope to `Make calls to Inference Providers`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inference Providers requires passing a user token in the request headers. You can generate a token by signing up on the Hugging Face website and going to the [settings page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens/new?ownUserPermissions=inference.serverless.write&tokenType=fineGrained). We recommend creating a `fine-grained` token with the scope to `Make calls to Inference Providers`.
```

For more details about user tokens, check out [this guide](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens).

### cURL

Let's start with a cURL command highlighting the raw HTTP request. You can adapt this request to be run with the tool of your choice.

```bash
curl https://router.huggingface.co/novita/v3/openai/chat/completions \

>     -H 'Authorization: Bearer hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for cURL snippets:

```suggestion
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $HF_TOKEN" \
```

    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
        "messages": [
            {
                "role": "user",
                "content": "How many G in huggingface?"
            }
        ],
        "model": "deepseek/deepseek-v3-0324",
        "stream": false
    }'
```

### Python

In Python, you can use the `requests` library to make raw requests to the API:

```python
import requests

API_URL = "https://router.huggingface.co/novita/v3/openai/chat/completions"
headers = {"Authorization": "Bearer hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"}
payload = {
    "messages": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "How many 'G's in 'huggingface'?"
        }
    ],
    "model": "deepseek/deepseek-v3-0324",
}

response = requests.post(API_URL, headers=headers, json=payload)
print(response.json()["choices"][0]["message"])
```

> For convenience, the Python library `huggingface_hub` provides an [`InferenceClient`](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/guides/inference) that handles inference for you. Make sure to install it with `pip install huggingface_hub`.

Reviewer 5: would it make sense to add an `openai` snippet too or is it a hassle because of the mapping thingy?

A lot of people use the `openai` package would be great to figure out a way to showcase that.

Author: but I don't think we'll feature it on the landing page, there are already many snippets on that page

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="novita",
    api_key="hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
)

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324",
    messages=[
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "How many 'G's in 'huggingface'?"
        }
    ],
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

### JavaScript

In JS, you can use the `fetch` library to make raw requests to the API:

```js
import fetch from "node-fetch";

const response = await fetch(
    "https://router.huggingface.co/novita/v3/openai/chat/completions",
    {
        method: "POST",
        headers: {
            Authorization: `Bearer hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`,
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
        body: JSON.stringify({
            provider: "novita",
            model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324",
            messages: [
                {
                    role: "user",
                    content: "How many 'G's in 'huggingface'?",
                },
            ],
        }),
    }
);
console.log(await response.json());
```

> For convenience, the JS  library `@huggingface/inference` provides an [`InferenceClient`](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface.js/inference/classes/InferenceClient) that handles inference for you. Make sure to install it with `npm install @huggingface/inference`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For convenience, the JS library `@huggingface/inference` provides an [`InferenceClient`](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface.js/inference/classes/InferenceClient) that handles inference for you. You can install it with `npm install @huggingface/inference`.
```

```js
import { InferenceClient } from "@huggingface/inference";

const client = new InferenceClient("hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
    provider: "novita",
    model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V3-0324",
    messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "How many 'G's in 'huggingface'?",
        },
    ],
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```

## Next Steps

> In this introduction, we've covered the basics of Inference Provider. To learn more about this service, check out our guides and API Reference:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this introduction, we've covered the basics of Inference Providers. To learn more about this service, check out our guides and API Reference:
```

- [Pricing and Billing](./pricing): everything you need to know about billing

> - [Hub integration](./hub-integration): how Inference Providers is integrated with the Hub?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Hub integration](./hub-integration): how is Inference Providers integrated with the Hub?
```

> - [Hub integration](./hub-integration): how the Inference Providers is integrated with the Hub?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Hub integration](./hub-integration): how Inference Providers is integrated with the Hub?
```

- [External Providers](./providers): everything about providers and how to become an official partner

> - [Hub API](./hub-api): high level API for inference providers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Hub API](./hub-api): high-level API for Inference Providers
```
also, capitalized, always (when talking about the product) 🙈
